PURE. I must uncover myself unto him, or I shall never enjoy him, for
all the cunning men's promises. [_Aside._] Good sir, hear me, I am
worth six thousand pound, my love to you is become my rack; I'll tell
you all and the truth, since you hate the hypocrisy of the
party-coloured brotherhood. These seven years I have been a wilful
holy widow, only to draw feasts and gifts from my entangled suitors: I
am also by office an assisting sister of the deacons, and a devourer,
instead of a distributor of the alms. I am a special maker of
marriages for our decayed brethren with our rich widows, for a third
part of their wealth, when they are married, for the relief of the
poor elect: as also our poor handsome young virgins, with our wealthy
bachelors or widowers; to make them steal from their husbands, when I
have confirmed them in the faith, and got all put into their
custodies. And if I have not my bargain, they may sooner turn a
scolding drab into a silent minister, than make me leave pronouncing
reprobation and damnation unto them. Our elder, Zeal-of-the-land,
would have had me, but I know him to be the capital knave of the land,
making himself rich, by being made a feoffee in trust to deceased
brethren, and cozening their heirs, by swearing the absolute gift of
their inheritance. And thus having eased my conscience, and utter'd my
heart with the tongue of my love; enjoy all my deceits together, I
beseech you. I should not have revealed this to you, but that in time
I think you are mad, and I hope you'll think me so too, sir?